---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

It all started when I discovered [org-mode](https://orgmode.org/) a few years
back. Before that I was a happy vim user, using vim form all sort of complex
text processing. I even used a vim plugin in my Java IDE. But I never used vim,
or text files for that matter, to take notes or manage my to-do list. 

Then one fine day, I watched with awe as one of my friends used org-mode to
manage pretty much every aspect about his life, from accounting to grocery
shopping. And I decided that I want to do the same. Today, I might have gone for
an org-mode alternative in [neovim](https://neovim.io/); but this was not an
option back then. So I decided to give a second chance to my old friend from the
university days called Emacs.

While trying to switch to Emacs, I realized that it takes a lot of effort to
unlearn the VI key bindings. So, after trying out the default Emacs as well as
several flavours, I settled on the [Doom
Emacs](https://github.com/doomemacs/doomemacs), which is optimised for vim
users. 

Fast forward a few years, and I'm using org-mode for managing all sort of
things; I can say that my life depends on it. But unlike the vim days, now there
are many rarely used, but really nice features, that I keep looking up, using
once and then forgetting how to use again. So instead of keep searching them
every time, and experiencing the "Déjà vu" while clicking on the same three
poorly written articles, before finally finding the right one, I decided to
write my own notes.

Then one day, it occurred to me that despite having my own notes, I still search
for the same things in the internet. This is mainly because I don't remember if
I have something in my notes or not. So I decided that, in future, any notes
that I write should be good enough to publish, so that I can actually publish
them and let the search engine lead me back to my own notes. 

Then came the question of how to publish them. Popular blogging platforms are
very easy to start with, and gives me good reach that I could never get on my
own. But my target audiance is primarily just the future me. And even if I spent
some time for the initial set-up, adding new notes to the collection should be
frictionless. Meaning, it should not take me away from whatever that I'm doing.

Creating a new post in any popular blogging platform is a mouse heavy operation
that forces me to switch context. Creating github pages on the other hand is
something I can do from any text editor, and publishing is just a push away. So
I decided to write my notes in org-mode and publish it as github pages using the
[org-publish-html](https://orgmode.org/worg/org-tutorials/org-publish-html-tutorial.html).

After a while I lost steam and stopped writing as I somehow invented my own
custom publishing process with lot of friction. I decided to give
[Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/), the popular default option for github pages a
chance.
